---
title: "WRS 105"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate course"
permalink: /teaching/2022-fall-wrs105
venue: "University of Miami, Writing Studies Department"
date: 2022-08-23
location: "Miami, United States"
excerpt: Writing Studies 105
---

# Course Description
Writing Studies 105 will introduce you to the fundamentals of university-level writing, reading, and thinking. This course is designed to cultivate an inquisitional approach to the broad-field of writing studies and to provide transferable skills applicable to your discipline-specific writing. In the broadest sense, this course will explore how writing (both consciously and unconsciously) connects us to ourselves, others, and entire communities. As we will explore throughout the course, writing is not only what happens on the page or in your first draft. Writing is the process. The process, as you will come to learn, includes those moments prior, during, and after writing. Our course has been designed to be challenging and, at times, difficult. You will be asked to engage with nuanced concepts and introspectively probe your writing habits and patterns. But, you are not alone. You are among a community of writers working together to create new knowledge.
Because I will be asking you to write complex and ambitious papers, revision (and its associated processes) will be crucial to this course and will constitute much of the work you do. You will write four essays this semester, but you will spend the majority of this semester writing, re-writing, refining, and polishing them. Collaboration will also be crucial to the process. Prior to, and after, each major assignment you will receive actionable commentary from myself and your peers. When you have finished the last revisions, your papers will not only represent your best work but will demonstrate how you have pushed yourself as a writer, engaged with the feedback of others, and ultimately improved your craft.
